And of course the other advantage of
going niche is that although there
may be competitors, if those competitors
haven't gone as niche as you have,
you now to that niche look
even more valuable, right?
Because your product is tailored
specifically around them,
and their specific needs.
And that brings me on to competitors and
finding out your competitors.
And first thing you do really whenever
I have an idea is I find out,
well who else has already done this?
And there are loads of ways you can do it.
It's not rocket It's science, and it
doesn't even take very long, to be honest.
I mean, I'm sure you could do it
more thoroughly than this, but
a reasonable good starting point is,
well, you start with a simple keyword,
[LAUGH] search, you Google it.
But then I find sites like
product hunt and also G2.
So these are reviews sites where people
comment on these kinds of things.
Pierspot is another one.
So there's quite a few of them around.
And you can just have
a look on those sites and
see whether you can find
anything that's similar.
And then pay attention to what people
are saying about those competitors as
well on those sites because you get
reviews and things which is great.
Then of course, there's social media and
there's forums.
If you're hanging out in the places
that your audience hangs out,
they will mention products, right,
and they will mention things.
And you can even ask in
these kinds of places,
do you know of a good product that does
X because I could really do with it.
And if X exists, then somebody often
will kind of suggest something.
Also, you can get access to
a lot of industry reports.
A lot of sectors have industry
reports that you can dig out.
And they often mention the major
players in the sector, so
that's worth checking as well.
The other thing I use is
search engine optimization and
search engine marketing tools as well.
Because what you can do there is you can
research into keywords that are around
your product and service, and it often
comes back with brand names as well.
And then you can go check
out those brand names and
see whether they are a similar
competitor or not.
Attending events is often good.
If you can go to an event that
is related to your audience, so
let's say you're creating
a Crocheting app.
I don't know why crocheting,
[LAUGH] jumped into my mind.
It's what my wife does.
Let's say you're making a Crocheting app.
Then there are crocheting meetups and
there are even crocheting events and
things like that, very much at
my wheelhouse, but there you go.
And it's worth going to those things cuz
there's often sponsors and there's people
with stands and all that kind of stuff,
so you get to see what's in the industry.
And then, this should be without saying,
but talk to your audience as well.
And even if you are the audience, talk
to other people that are the audience,
because you do not have a encyclopedic
knowledge of everything in your sector.
Well, certainly I don't, there's so
many apps these days that you
just can't cover everything.
Couple of other places you can look for
competitors, news and
publications is another
one that I look at a lot.
So for example, there are tech blogs that
that just highlight new startups and
those kinds of things can be
quite useful to look at as well.
So once you've kind of
found your competitors,
then the next step is really
to try out their offerings,
see what they're actually like.
I'm not saying you need to try
every competitor because you might
be in a market with a lot of competitors,
but certainly try the big boys and
try the ones that you think are most
similar to what you're gonna do, okay?
And so as you begin to try and
explore their offerings,
you're looking at their features,
you're looking at their usability.
I almost always drop them
an email with a question so
I can test their customer support.
Because you can have a product
that dominates the marketplace but
if their customer support is terrible,
that could differentiate you,
that could be an advantage that you get.
So all of this will give you a better
understanding of what you're up against.
And be honest with yourself.
It's very easy in this kinda scenario
to just look at all their rubbish bits.
Yeah, they don't do this very well and
they don't do that very well
it's human nature, right?
But equally write a list of the things
that you think they do really well
as well.
Because otherwise you effectively delude
yourself into thinking that, yes,
I could definitely compete with Amazon,
[LAUGH] can you?
So yeah, do that a little bit.
So you're trying the offering, but
you also wanna pay attention
to their reach, okay?
Because even if they've got an inferior
product, doesn't necessarily mean
you can still compete with them because
they might have a massive reach.
And what do I mean by reach?
Well, I'm talking about
look at their advertising.
Are they paying for
pay-per-click advertising?
How often do they appear in
Are they appearing on relevant websites?
Do they buy lots of banner ads?
Are they throwing money at it basically,
which obviously you are gonna
struggle to compete with unless you've
got some, you know, money behind you.
Social is another thing
to pay attention to.
How many followers do they
have on social media?
And how often do they post?
And how often do people reply to them?
And is the sentiment positive or
negative, all of that kind of thing.
And there are tools out there
like BuzzSumo or Mention.com,
which will help you do
those kinds of things.
And that can be very useful because
it will give you a sense of whether
they're papering over weaknesses in
their customer relationship with
huge amounts of advertising cuz
some organizations do that.
And so there may be an opportunity to get
in there, even if they're throwing a lot
of money at it, because actually people
don't, [LAUGH] like them very much, right?
And then the third thing
is look at the media.
How often they're
mentioned on media sites.
Have they got good PR going on?
So back pay attention to
all of that kind of stuff.
Cuz I'll be honest with you, there
have been many times in my experience
where with that VPN, I said,
I think you're gonna struggle to ever be
anything more than a very niche
offering for a very small audience.
Because the biggest players who
just dominated they've got such big
reach that I think you're gonna
struggle to get any further.
Yeah, go for it Mark.
>> Online, someone's asking,
what about instances where
the competitors offer a free option and
have extremely large reach?
And you're offering would have to be
paid but also not tried and true.
Is there something that,
you should look forward to say,
I should shy the away from this market,
or?
>> Yeah, so we're gonna talk
more about pricing models later.
So I won't get into that too much now.
I mean, if I was confronted with
a someone that offered a free option,
had big venture capital backing and
I was trying to bootstrap something up,
if I'm honest in most cases
I'd probably walk away.
And there's no shame in that, that's why
we're doing this, this process, right?
If we're just gonna conclude at
the end of the time, we're gonna
barrel on regardless, then why are we
even bothering with market research?
So a lot of the time I'd walk away there.
The other option is you just
go very niche in that and
that you focus on doing
something very specific for
a very specific audience and
you just do it very well.